# Extending the Christchurch Wi-Fi network, a geospatial analysis and proposal 

In an increasingly digital world, access to reliable internet connectivity is essential for individuals, businesses, and institutions. The Smart Christchurch initiative provides free WiFi coverage in the inner city centre (Smart Christchurch, 2023) as part of bringing the city into the 21st century. The current Wi-Fi coverage extends from "the Bridge of Remembrance and along Oxford Terrace to Victoria Square, across to Colombo Street and back down Colombo Street to the Lichfield Street corner" (Christchurch City Council & Enable, n.d.). Although the current implementation is a step in the right direction, many parts of the city centre remain without access. 

The aim of this project was to extend the free WiFi coverage in Christchurch by identifying optimal locations for new access points based on existing infrastructure, and spatial analysis within the CBD. By expanding coverage, more public spaces can be utilised for productivity. For instance, cafes and eateries can be used by students and remote workers without having to rely on costly mobile hotspots. Tourists visiting the city can also utilise this. Free WiFi gives them access to informational resources to navigate the city rather than having to use their own mobile data which can incur roaming charge fees. With many groups standing to benefit from free Wi-Fi through the city this would be a step to social equity. Wang (2012) notes that the economically disadvantaged have much to gain by free easy access to Wi-Fi. In the increasingly digital world the ability to access help usually requires internet access.

By collecting data on current free WiFi coverage and amenities density, a comprehensive understanding was developed of where this additional coverage was needed. To achieve this, a systematic spatial data science workflow was deployed. This analysis used various geospatial techniques for data analysis and visualisation to give recommendations for specific locations for extending WiFi coverage. By integrating these analyses, the aim was to not only improve connectivity, but also to enhance the overall functionality of Christchurch as a smart city, ensuring the population can benefit from reliable internet access.